#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass letter
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 0
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Send To Address
To 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

The Associate Editor 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

PRL
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
Dear Editor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We would like to submit our paper 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Direct verification of the fluctuation-response relation in viscously coupled
 oscillators
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 for consideration towards publication in your journal.
 In this paper, we provide a direct experimental verification of the fluctuation
-response relation in a system of two hydrodynamically coupled colloidal
 particles trapped in separate optical tweezers in a viscous medium (water).
 In addition, the dynamics of this system under varying experimental conditions
 also reveals an interesting and somewhat unexpected phenomena in the context
 of optical tweezers - the observation of a motional resonance in a trapped
 particle under the influence of an external drive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fluctuation-response relation is a pillar in non-equilibrium statistical
 mechanics which essentially relates the random motion or intrinsic fluctuations
 of colloidal particles in thermodynamic equilibrium to their more systematic
 (linear) response to forces applied externally.
 The theorem has been widely used in microrheology applications to determine
 the characteristics of simple as well as complex, viscoelastic fluids.
 However, most research conducted in non-equilibrium statistical mechanics
 tacitly assume the validity of the fluctuation-response theorem, and there
 exist few direct experimental verifications of the theorem, especially
 in systems composed of multiple Brownian particles that, additionally,
 are coupled hydrodynamically.
 In this work, we use optical tweezers to trap two colloidal particles in
 separate traps in a viscous medium, and experimentally demonstrate that
 fluctuation-response holds in this system.
 Note that since the particles are now hydrodynamically coupled, the thermodynam
ic equilibrium of the individual particles are disturbed, which essentially
 results in a departure from the single particle fluctuation-response result.
 However, the coupled system treated as a whole is in thermodynamic equilibrium,
 and we explicitly demonstrate by careful experiments that fluctuation-response
 is valid in this system.
 In addition, we observe that when one of the trapped particles is driven
 sinusoidally, the other displays an amplitude resonance at a particular
 drive frequency.
 This observation is facilitated by the fact that the particles are trapped
 extremely close to each other, with a surface-surface separation that is
 less than the particle radius.
 This necessarily complicates the experiment since we need to ensure that
 there is no cross-talk in both the trapping and detection schemes, so that
 the response of one particle does not spill into that of the other.
 We check all such systematics carefully, and finally demonstrate a clear
 amplitude resonance in the motion of the driven bead - the first result
 of this kind in optical tweezers, where the viscous nature of the trapping
 medium damps out all inertial effects, thus precluding the observation
 of motional resonances.
 The width and center frequency of the resonance can be tuned, so that it
 can be used as a useful tool for accurate two-point microrheology.
 We specifically envisage this approach for measuring the viscosity of liquids
 using the trapped colloidal particles as probes.
 All our experimental results are also validated by a theoretical model
 of the system using appropriate fluid-mediated interactions represented
 by the mobility tensors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, we believe that the content of this work - a study of basic physics
 which leads to a useful application - is quite well-tuned to the demands
 and standards of work reported in PRL.
 The fluctuation-response relation is a fundamental result in physics -
 yet direct experimental verifications of the theorem are rare if not virtually
 absent, as is the observation of a motional resonance in an overdamped
 system.
 The application of the resonance in microrheology may also lead to further
 research in this area by increasing number of particles or extending the
 problem to viscoelastic media.
 The content of this work should thus be interesting to a wide range of
 physicists, so that we hope that you would consider the paper suitable
 for consideration in PRL, and commence the review process shortly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Yours sincerely,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ronojoy Adhikari and Ayan Banerjee
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
