#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass revtex4-1
\options prl, twocolumn
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Assembly and manipulation of mesoscopic particles by active thermocapillary
 stress
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Basudev Roy, Rajesh Singh, R.
 Adhikari, Ayan Banerjee
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata, India
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, CIT Campus, Chennai 600113, India
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The temperature variation of the surface tension at a liquid-gas interface
 generates tangential thermocapillary stresses which drive flows in the
 ambient liquid.
 Here, we show that such active stresses can be generated in a controlled
 manner by inducing a microbubble in optical tweezers.
 Guided by the resulting thermocapillary flow, mesoscopic particles dispersed
 in the ambient liquid assemble at the bubble interface.
 Thermophoretic motion of the bubble, under translation of the optical tweezers,
 provides a mechanism for transporting the interfacially assembled particles.
 We demonstrate the viability of this transport mechanism for a wide variety
 of particles, ranging from gold nanoparticles to polystyrene microspheres.
 Multiple microbubbles allow for additional control of particle assembly
 and manipulation, as we demonstrate with a pair of microbubbles.
 Our results show that active thermocapillary stress offers novel mechanisms
 for manipulating particles that, otherwise, are difficult to manipulate
 solely with optical tweezers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thermo-optic bubble system has an illuminating laser beam which is made
 incident onto an absorbing substrate and heats up the surface locally.
 The subse- quent hot spot has temperatures ranging from 300 K to 644 K
 depending upon the power of the laser beam.
 This results in the vaporization of water and the formation of the bubble.
 The bubble is an interface between the water phase and a vapor phase.
 It touches the surface of the absorbing layer at the hot spot.
 Thus locally, the region of the bubble close to the hot-spot is warmer
 than the region of the bubble away from the spot.
 Thus a temper- ature gradient appears across the surface of the bubble
 due to which a hydrodynamic stress is developed.
 This initiates Marangoni convection.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Particles can be trapped in these convective flows and adhere to the surface
 of the bubble.
 Since the convective flows are symmetric about the z axis of the bubble,
 it draws particles symmetrically from all sides towards the surface of
 the bubble and accumulates them on a ring.
 These however do not go to the base where the bubble meets the bottom surface
 but rather remains close to the equatorial plane.
 Such effect can be understood from the flow direction of water in fig.
 1 showing attractive flows towards the equatorial plane of the bubble itself.
 Further, as the bubble is moved by displacing the hot spot, the particles
 sticking to the surface keep adhering and can be moved together with the
 bubble.
 This effect has been shown in a variety of materials ranging from polystyrene
 beads of 3 μm and 10 μm size to gold and silver clusters and even 3 μm
 polystyrene beads having a core of iron oxide.
 The metallic particles are difficult to be trapped directly in optical
 tweezers particularly close to the plasmon resonance.
 Bubble mediated trapping and transport provides the perfect solution even
 when the trapping laser is at plasmon resonance since it does not rely
 on the gradient force at all.
 This has been shown in Fig.
 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have moved iron-core particles on bubbles at a speed of 34 μm/sec which
 amounts to a force of 0.9 pN oneach individual particle.
 This is compensated for by the surface tension of the air-water interface
 which amounts to 2 × 10−7 N for a sphere of radius 1.5 μm.
 The flow field due to a single bubble is directed radially towards the
 center in a plane close to the glass slide.
 If two such bubbles are placed close to each other - as long as the bubbles
 are far apart from each other so that one does not influence the micro-
 flow due to the other, the resul- tant flow can be obtained by adding the
 individual flows.
 Thus, a saddle-like configuration is obtained, and a sep- aratrix appears
 in between the two bubbles.
 If a particle starts from one side of the separatrix, it converges into
 the bubble closer to it.
 If it starts from the other side of the separatrix, it converges to the
 other bubble.
 We observe this kind of motion in our set-up too, as shown in the cartoon
 Fig.
 ??.
 Thus using bubbles, the micro- hydrodynamic flow fields can be manipulated.
 The Fig.
 ??(b) shows a typical trajectory of a 3 μm particle coming towards the
 bubbles close to the separa- trix.
 All points have been measured at equal time inter- vals of 60 ms, so that
 it is apparent that the velocity of the particle increases as it nears
 the bubble.
 The particle approaches the saddle point and then deviates towards one
 of the bubbles.
 The position closest to the origin is where the particle hits the bubble
 and moves no fur- ther.
 The sizes of the two bubbles may not be exactly the same so that the separatrix
 may not be a straight line equidistant from the two bubbles.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Theory of flows around a heated bubble
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Demonstrate self-assembly of particles in flow (ring formation)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Demonstrate transport of particles on bubble that is loaded
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Demonstrate manipulation of pairs of bubbles
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
x=\sqrt{(w)}
\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
