#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass revtex4-1
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Self-assembly and transportation of mesoscopic particles by active thermocapilla
ry stress
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Basudev Roy, Rajesh Singh, R.
 Adhikari, Ayan Banerjee
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Kolkata, India
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, CIT Campus, Chennai 600113, India
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The temperature variation of the surface tension at a liquid-gas interface
 generates tangential thermocapillary stresses which produce flows in the
 ambient fluid.
 Here, we demonstrate that such active stresses can be generated in a controlled
 manner by inducing a microbubble in optical tweezers.
 Mesoscopic particles dispersed in the ambient fluid self-assemble on the
 bubble interface under the action of the resulting flow.
 Thermophoretic motion of the bubble, under translation of the optical tweezers,
 provides a mechanism for transporting the interfacially assembled particles.
 We demonstrate the viability of this transport mechanism for a wide variety
 of particles, ranging from gold nanoparticles to polystyrene microspheres.
 Multiple microbubbles allow for additional control of particle self-assembly
 and manipulation, as we demonstrate with a pair of microbubbles.
 Our results show that active thermocapillary stress offers novel mechanisms
 for manipulating particles that, otherwise, are difficult to manipulate
 solely with optical tweezers.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
